hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
after the longest ever break in the
action since the founding of the CHP in
this episode I'd like to launch a new
China history podcast 10 part series
covering the history of tea some of you
may recall from more than a year ago I
mentioned possibly doing a podcast on
this subject after a year-long drumbeat
of steady email requests to cover this
topic and realizing talk is cheap the
whole team here at the CHP is finally
making good on this up till now
unfulfilled promise I'm going to discuss
the history of tea in China from the
ancient times of the Sun Huang Moody all
the way into our modern age the Sun Quan
moody covered long ago and CHP episode
60 the mythical three sovereigns and
five emperors teased history is quite a
story and as we often do here at the
Royal China history podcast we grossly
underestimated the magnitude of this
topic but I hope the length of the
series doesn't deter you from listening
all the way to the end it gets better as
we go along this much let me assure you
in the following episodes we'll look at
the history of tea from its most
legendary beginnings going back 47
centuries ago and take it all the way up
to the 20th century the focus will be on
the history of tea as relates to China
all these other places Japan and Korea
especially Indonesia Vietnam India Sri
Lanka Thailand Turkey Iran Russia Egypt
Kenya affect all to something like 50
countries who grow and pick tea they all
have their own unique tea history and
tea culture so as I'm often forced to do
as the decider I made an executive
decision to focus this history of T
series solely on the history of tea in
China
this is a very big umbrella so I'll try
and fit in as much tea history as I can
at no additional cost to you whatsoever
first let me say a few things
before we wade into the shallow end and
start looking at T all the greatest most
accomplished respected and admired T
experts all over the world had mentors
who inspired and guided them and
learning about T nobody is born an
aficionado the greatest team masters and
experts of the 21st century will all
readily admit it was their teachers and
team mentors who got them interested and
who generally passed on all the
centuries of wisdom and understanding
about T how to grow it process it how to
prepare it and how to enjoy it to the
fullest extent possible it always starts
with one person who provides that spark
that opens your eyes and leaves you to
take the first step that leads you down
the T path in the course of my life I
had the good fortune to meet one of
China's great modern writers and tea
experts professor Wang Shu Fung she was
the recipient of the Mountain Literature
Prize in 2004 her work trilogies of tea
men char and Sambu chewed she's one of
the living treasures of the great tea
city of Hangzhou if not for one law
shoes first inspiration this history of
tea serious might have been
back-burnered indefinitely I'd like to
dedicate this series to one now share
for the inspiration she gave me and no
doubt to countless others not only in
China but all around the world she is
truly one of China's most tireless tea
ambassadors in researching this series
on the history of tea I was fortunate to
come across another living legend in the
world of tea whose books provided a lot
of the material for the series this was
mr. James Norwood Pratt author of the
new tea lovers Treasury and the tea
lovers companion among many other books
I was also immensely thankful for Mary
Lou and Robert heists of T trekker calm
for their two books that I used
prodigiously these were the story of tea
a cultural history and drinking guide
the tea enthusiasts handbook I recommend
them all and we'll have links to every
source and website mentioned over the
next 10 episodes as far as tea
scholarship I and many others here in
the land of Liberty are beholden to mr.
William H euchre's Mary Lou and Robert
Heights dedicated their book the story
of tea to him and said quote to William
H euchre's you blazed the trail and in
your footsteps we all follow unquote
William H euchre's published in 1935
Roosevelt's first term the exhaustively
researched work all about tea the title
says it all and though much more has
been learned since euchre's published
his great work it was was still a source
that was very happy to have at my side
at all times
Thank You professor Endymion Wilkinson
for your great work
China history a new manual for alerting
me to mr. euchre's China history a new
manual previously recommended by David
Moser on the Seneca podcast one of the
greatest Western sinologists of our time
and dim Ian Wilkinson there were many
other works I used that some of my team
mentors recommended YouTube yoku have no
shortage of beautiful and educational
videos about tea they're our multitude
of videos filled right in the villages
in China where you can see how they make
it step by step
I can't recommend enough the six-part
CCTV documentary series he can shoe you
the kosher I don't know if it has an
English title but it translates to the
story of a leaf this documentary did a
great job visually of presenting team
showing how special it is all of the
link to that as well
and looking back on just the last 12
months and thinking about all the places
T has taken me and the people I've met
along the way I can really understand
why T is called among other things a
social beverage whether you believe in
the Garden of Eden or the Big Bang
nature gifted us with three great
temperance beverages those are
coffee cocoa and tea cocoa came to
Europe first in 1528 by the greeks world
superpower of the de espana they brought
it from the new world after the aztec
conquest in 1521 next up was tea in 1610
thanks to the dutch in five years later
in 1615 venetian traders are credited
with bringing coffee if you don't
include the air we breathe and the water
we drink nothing on earth is consumed
and greater quantities than tea I
suspect this may have something to do
with tea being the beverage of choice
for most people east of zero degrees
longitude he became the first global
commodity shipped to markets on six
continents its history began in Asia the
Golden Triangle gave mankind not only
narcotic drugs but tea as well that's
where the original tea garden was tea
trees have been around for more than 50
million years euchre said quote the
original jungles were tea trees grew
wild were found in the Shan states of
Thailand and East Burma even on northern
Vietnam and India before all got divided
up into Nations it was all one big
primeval tea garden soil climate
rainfall everything was perfect to
propagate the species unquote wherever
it was even on Szechwan or wherever the
one indisputable historical truth
remains that it was China who acted as
the rental The Fountainhead from whence
tea as we know it was gifted to the
world not everyone knows this so let me
get this amazing benefit fo out there
early no matter where in the world tea
has grown or how it is processed into
that darkest malty Assam black tea mixed
with milk and sugar or the most subtle
tasting white tea using the freshest
buds picked before the spring rains and
early April and selling for a thousand
euros four hundred grams it all comes
from the same plant camellia sinensis
Camellia sinensis is either a tall tree
a small tree of 3 to 5 meters or most
often a dome-shaped bush of 1 and a half
to 3 meters high if you just leave them
alone and let them grow while the tea
tree can grow his height is 30 feet in
the original tea garden stretching from
Sichuan Yunnan and into the Golden
Triangle area there are tea trees
hundreds and even thousands of years old
spread out among 200 or so forest areas
the problem with tea trees is that yet
to climb them to get the branches where
all the tea was in time most were all
cut down and replaced instead with tea
bushes that were cultivated according to
the long centuries of accumulated
lessons learned through trial and error
is the tea story unfolds you'll see from
the earliest times practically all the
way into the tong dynasty the kind of
tea that was drunk by the ancients
probably wouldn't be as popular as it is
an hour day if you consider the Jo or
the xiang as china's earliest days
that's a good solid two millennia
between that time and when leave your
Annalee shermeen founded the Tong and he
started to taste good let me get some
fine print that goes with that sweeping
botanical claim about all tea leaves
being the same all tea comes from one
single species true but you have
multiple varieties depending on what
part of the original tea garden the
plant came from though the number of
cultivars and varieties also bound
basically if you put a gun to my head
and told me to narrow it down to just
three
you have the leaves of the china bush
the Assam bush and the Java bush and the
Java bush known as camellia sinensis
Cambodia was a transplant of the Assam
Bush to Java and Indonesia so really
there's the China and Assam bushes both
a variety of camellia sinensis
the leaves of the china bush are smaller
than the Assam Bush and the China bush
can live much longer and thrive in
colder weather the Assam Bush has larger
and softer leaves than the China plant
and
is a little less hearty than the Chinese
varietal and grows best in subtropical
regions where there's lots of rain
they're the same but not the same the
word for riots all is usually associated
with wine grapes but it's also used in
the botanical world as well the word
cultivar is used more often in the team
world the word was coined by the great
American horticulturalist and botanist
Liberty Hyde Bailey cultivar comes from
a combination of the terms cultivated
variety that is to say it isn't a wild
plant it was cultivated just like when
you take an animal from the wild and
domesticated sort of but not actually
the same thing this is something that
was applied to the camellia sinensis
plants for thousands of years and is the
main reason why you'll hear about there
being thousands of different cultivars
of the tea plant they use their
knowledge of plant genetics to modify
the tea bushes to thrive and very
particular areas back in 1753 Sweden's
great botanist Carl Linnaeus published
species plantarum the groundbreaking
work that gave us the whole scientific
nomenclature that we still use today
plant hunters the indiana jones' of
their day would traverse the world bring
samples back and Linnaeus and those who
followed him would classify everything
before it was camellia sinensis the tea
plant was initially classified by
Linnaeus as Te'o census effect he
classified it further as Te'o Meredith's
for green tea and taya bogey for black
no one in Linnaeus is time knew the big
secret that green and black tea came
from the same bush the genus Bertie was
later renamed as part of the camellia
family there are over 200 species and
thousands of cultivars from this family
of evergreens so tea trees and plants
had always been around from man's
earliest days but the secrets of the
leaf remained undiscovered
it took someone to have that first aha
moments when after consuming these
particular leaves they caught that first
buzz or moment of pleasure it wasn't
enough simply to be cognizant of the
sensation someone also had to pass the
word around the forest and let others
know and then these others would in turn
pass this information on further even
the bitterest tea was caused for ripples
of excitement to spread through the
forests of Southeast Asia
back in those Neil at the days there
were great discoveries being made every
day in the forests on the plains and in
the mountains sometimes the word spread
sometimes the chance discovery didn't
get propagated and mankind would have to
wait another thousand years to
rediscover it and we'll see from the
earliest mentions about tea the Chinese
had already noticed from the start that
these leaves perked you up a bit because
we can only speculate on teas
prehistoric or Neolithic history we're
stuck with written records and artifacts
to definitively establish teas place on
the history timeline historians for a
thousand years and more have combed
through documents stating the earliest
references to the camellia sinensis leaf
as of this year 2014 this earliest
mention goes back to 59 BCE the Western
hung this was the time of the good
emperor Shen how do we know this by
chance there was a copy of a document
called a contract with a servant the
contract discussed tea utensils and
called for someone to go down to Chengdu
capital of citron and to secure a
servant who would perform an itemized
list of services among the tasks
requested of this servant to perform
involved buying brewing and serving tea
furthermore this document credited to
one Bao mentioned the city of Wu young
and genesee province not far from nan
Xiang this is where China's oldest known
central tea market was located
they have thousand-year-old trees in
Chinese she too
this is as far back as historians can
accurately go and it could be confirmed
that not only were people drinking tea
in China there was also a market whoo
yeah and she and she to deal in it so
this document was dated 59 BCE 2000 73
years ago Julius Caesar was Consul in
Rome at the time before tea became known
as cha and Mandarin it had gone through
several name changes Jia to one show
mean the patron sage was life and work
were gonna look at in part 3 was Lu
you'd he lived during the heyday of the
Tang Dynasty his great work was the cha
ching or the classic of tea for now I
just want to introduce him he was sort
of if I may the Elvis of literary people
who wrote about tea from the time of Lu
you all the way into our present day
there have been many other great tea
treatises and studies that followed but
Chinese have always put Lulu in a class
by himself he was the king the
chou-heung the tea st. today in this
episode we're looking at the history of
tea before Lu you but tea goes way back
further than Lulu and the Tong dynasty
so where did it actually all begin in
China I know all the tea experts out
there are daring me to tell the shun
dong story well I'm going to Lou you
said it happened so I'm going to tell it
if you believe the myth that all started
with shun dome in the 2700 BCE chandan
was the second of the three sovereigns I
mentioned at the outset in China folk
culture he's about as big as you can get
shun boom the Yellow Emperor could come
on man nobody could out shrunk those two
as I mentioned in that chp 60 episode
the age that shun known lived in was
that of the great flooding of biblical
times and about a hundred years before
the Great Pyramid it was the time when
Stonehenge was built cuneiform writing
was already being used in Mesopotamia
27:37 BCE is the day
that seems to uniformly pop up in all
sources as to the time when Shandong
lived Chinese folk tradition mentioned
from the earliest times that was shun
dong who noticed that tea leaves brewed
in hot water gave you a buzz the incas
of the 6th century figured out the same
thing from chewing coca leaves and so it
may have been with tea leaves in China
it was probably someone chewing the
leaves who noticed that first many jolts
rather than the shun known version of
the story but let's tell it anyway
Shandong the divine farmer the Wu Guiche
emptied the Emperor of the five grains
no agreement after all these years and
exactly what the five are or were
unknown here's a lot of names what is
there to say about shun no he brought
agriculture to China he's the father of
Chinese medicine and left behind a
magnificent work called the Shandong
been searching the divine farmer's
materia medica or simply the shun known
herbal a copy of which I have in my CHP
reference library a gift from my good
friend Clement in Shanghai this great
work
who knows who compiled it was a
collection of what everyone knew up to
that point about plants agriculture and
medicine Shandong is also credited with
inventing the Chinese calendar
I mean he's big Shandong also brought
the secrets of tea to mankind how did he
do such a thing there are multiple
versions the two most famous of which I
will tell the reason unknown was able to
write himself into the history books was
mainly due to his willingness to stick
his neck out and try out different
plants and herbs to test their effects
on his body as anyone who saw the 2007
movie directed by Sean Penn called in to
the wild doing this kind of thing is
risky and life threatening to say the
least but through trial and error and
some good fortune Chun Doong compiled
quite a list of herbal remedies that did
wonders for a multitude of afflictions
of the day there's this story of shun
gnome tasting a hundred plants this came
straight
who you shot no one was out walking one
day and decided to sit down and rest so
tired and thirsty was he from all his
work he boiled some water in his pot
that was what people did back then
the Chinese figured that one out real
early boil the water first live longer
this plain boiled water would later on
be referred to as by cha not the by cha
or white tea we know of today but white
in the sense of there wasn't anything in
it just plain boiled water so Chun Doong
is boiling his water when lo and behold
several leaves from the tea tree he was
sitting under blew into his cup of
course it was a tea tree and not a bush
since no one had discovered tea yet the
trees were all lush and wild and growing
everywhere in China's subtropical
southwest
shun Nong no doubt took these leaves
falling into his pot as a good side and
naturally tasted that brew it quenched
his thirst gave him an eyes picked me up
and left him feeling all refreshed shun
dong wrote of tea in his buntao Ching
quote tea tastes bitter drinking it one
can think quicker sleep less move more
nimbly
and see more clearly unquote coming from
someone the likes of shun Nong that's
quite an endorsement and shun Nong who
would have carried a Chinese passport by
extension passed on no small amount of
glory to the motherland for being the
one to discover such a miracle and
wonder I read she unknown left his
earthly form and Hunan province at a
place called tea hill or charleen there
must be some element of truth to this
because I found the place on Google Maps
it's a little bit northeast of Zhang Jia
Jia so you know the divine farmer past
and beautiful surroundings no mention if
he went by natural causes or was
poisoned to death Shan dong didn't call
tea chai yet way back then he was called
to it was far from the beverage we've
come to enjoy Shan dong wasn't kidding
when he said it was bitter people
familiar with Chinese characters will
note that too second tone is written
just like the character cha but with one
extra
horizontal stroke under the roof which
isn't too rough at all that's out read
the character to looks very similar to
cha and it was natural that the
character party cha ultimately be
derived from the character tool users of
the young church o dictionary my
stalwart going back to the 1980s will
note 2 is character number 4 9 31 it
stands for the Sanchez older osseous a
vegetable also called in Chinese cool
its high it's also known as south vessel
or smart wood at least during the later
Han 23 to 220 CE II this vegetable
called tool had a dual usage meaning T
as well in ancient writings where the
character tool comes up like the book of
songs and book of rites the surging and
lychee historians had to be sure what
kind of tool it was they were reading
about the bitter tasting vegetable or
the ancient name for tea which was also
bitter you know there's always smoke
everywhere you go in ancient China
historians wanted to hold the fire not
the smoke the hard part was simply to
find documents that had the character
tool then scholars would expend all
their energies to figure out from the
context are they talking about cha or
cool it's high around the Year seven
twenty five when cha forevermore
replaced tool as the word for tea no one
told the fellows in Fujian province and
they kept on calling it cool or in that
part of China pay and in their various
mean dialects tool came out sounded like
tea so when the first Western traders
came to China off the coast of Fujian
they asked what's this stuff called
their food Chinese suppliers told him in
their own dialect it's called pay as far
as the first Europeans were concerned
today it became now down to Guangdong
province including the capital Guangzhou
or Canton they had heard about the name
change when it happened and therefore
tea was chopped down there so everyone
who ended up buying tea out of can't on
new
what is cha or some variation thereof
and all those like the Dutch who did
their purchasing out of shaman foo Joe
Cheng Joe or wherever along the coast of
food Qin they know what is T and since
we in the West have the Dutch to thank
for being the first Europeans to engage
in the tea business anent we know it is
tea rather than cha he were the first to
market and as it often went in history
they got naming rights I mentioned that
in 59 BCE during the time of the Western
Han Emperor Shen there was a mention of
tea in this long fall document that was
discovered that the outset of the second
century there was another work
discovered called the troll and yets it
was presented to the Han Emperor Ondine
this was a Chinese dictionary to end all
dictionaries that analyzed all the known
Chinese characters to date tea was
referred to as mean and was described as
buds picked from the tool plant there
are no surviving copies of the troll
when she had su but from looking at this
document from 121 ad at the time of
Hadrian in Rome we can at least deduce
that the Chinese had figured out the
buds were the best part of the tea plant
and that if you pluck them more shoots
would sprout forth today some of the
most prized - pricy green and white teas
only contain the buds
it seems they also felt the same way
2,000 years ago
so let me follow the breadcrumbs back to
where we were with shun dong and the
legendary discoveries he made and how he
brought tea to humankind that was a heck
of a tangent another story about shun
known goes and this is a variation of
the shun dong tasting a hundred plants
and herbs tale that when shun long tried
those hundred plants 72 of them turned
out to be toxic and as he lay there
possibly dying and knocking on heaven's
door do you know what happened next some
leaves from a nearby tea tree blew off
the branches and landed right within
reach of the divine farmer he consumed
these leaves and suddenly he was filling
a tip-top shape Chun Doong grabbed a
basket and plucked in
gathered as many of these leaves as he
could carry he consumed more of them and
slowly all the poisons from the six
dozen kinds of toxic flora he tested
were all purged from his body
so she unknowing did a lot of research
into this and passed this good word on
to all the people in the land as far as
Lu Yu is concerned we all have shun
known to thank for enlightening the
world about the health benefits derived
from tea there's another story that says
shun mom discovered tea when he came
upon a burning tea bush and noticed the
fragrance of the burning and roasting
leaves it grabbed his attention and in
no time at all he learned how to get
this type of bush to yield its magical
elixir shine gnome being a folk
extraordinaire so to speak there's about
a million other legends and stories
associated with them depending on which
swim you come from in China with this
defining historical legend concerning
shun Nome in the discovery of tea
China has pretty much claim squatter's
rights with regard to who brought to you
to the world
the thing about tea in shun gnomes time
and pretty much all the way up to the
joke dynasty was that it was more of a
medicine than something you might make
for yourself just to kick back and chill
jo dynasty tea was supposedly very
bitter very heavy even viscous tea as we
know it and the time of the Joe Kings
still had a long way to go the joke
dynasty saw the introduction of the
three religions of China Confucianism
Taoism and Buddhism all three showed up
on the scene roughly during the same
time during the Eastern Joe and all
three religions will embrace tea not so
much for the taste as much as for the
health benefits the rituals they will
associate with its preparation and
consumption and the ability to offer an
ice pick me up when needed one in
particular China Buddhism known in Japan
as Zen Buddhism incorporated tea into
the religion itself I include Buddhism
in this group even though it came from
India this religion early on
covered the merits of tea and how it
served as a perfect antidote for thirst
fatigue and a myriad of life's ills teas
journey from a novel discovery to a
medicinal plant took its sweet time
historians and archaeologists have
uncovered all kinds of mentions of tea
there is a mention of tea being sent
from Yunnan and 1066 BCE as a gift to
the king this would have been the
infamous and final king of the Shang
Dynasty Jo Xin yes the wine pool and
meat forest King the unforgettable Jill
Giroux lead you not has the oldest tea
trees around
I read 1700 years old they've been using
tea and hue tonight at least since the
Shang Dynasty and had been boiling the
leaves with many other products of the
forest I spent an afternoon drinking tea
and Chengdu with a lovely husband and
wife team boy they sure know a lot about
tea he was from food Jo and his missus
was from Chengdu anyways he showed me a
photo he took in front of a tree in a
secret location and good 9:00 that he
said was almost 3,000 years old southern
good night ladies and gentlemen if you
want to see the oldest tea trees in the
world
good nan citron and cuejoe are where the
oldest trees are many of them over 30
feet tall as far as China's recorded
history goes in the Shang Dynasty tea
was certainly around and was being
offered as tribute to the Chinese king
from you not where tea production was
said to have first started tea was
something that would spread south to
north but there was no Chinese character
for tea invented yet up in the north
where the Xiang a civilization was so
there's nothing written about tea and
the oracle bones or the bronze where
there's also the GaN Lu legend this is
the story of woody Jun he lived during
the time of the Western Han an emperor
Shen the legend has it that who Li Jun
was on his way back from studying
Buddhism in India around 53 BC he he had
cut 70 plants and was carefully
transporting them back to his home in su
chuan and when he got to a certain point
among ding Mountain Hmong ding Xiang in
citron he planted these 70 plants this
is only 125 kilometers southwest of
China to then once mature and ready
cuttings were taken from these original
seven trees planted by wooly John who
may or may not have lived over time
these cuttings were planted all over
monkey Mountain leading to what you see
today tea heaven but the tea from the
original seven trees later known as this
yellow coloured mung bean lucha was
reserved solely for the emperor it also
became known as Shen cha the tea of the
Immortals because of Wooley Chen and his
seven trees this area in such one
southwest of Chengdu and yeah chili a
nice 90 minutes to two hour car ride is
called the birthplace of tea cultivation
in China this is where it began the
original 70 bushes planted by woolly
Chun are probably gone but there are
seven bushes still there today protected
of course we do know that gingko trees
were also planted there at the same time
and those trees have been reliably dated
to more than 2,000 years ago since the
time of the Jo tea was already well
known to Buddhist monks performing all
those daily devotions sometimes those
monks even the abbot they needed
something to give them a natural boost
to help them carry on throughout the day
and do good deeds and keep on keeping on
tea was the answer early on Buddhist
temples were all aware of tea and
cherish the tea plant not just as a
beverage and for its rejuvenating
benefits but also was a health product
that when mixed together with various
other herbs or natural substances
provided medicinal relief for prevention
of all kinds of Jo and Han Dynasty
ailments and because the people also
followed Buddhist teachings it allowed
them to become even more familiar with
beverage tea in the first centuries of
the Common Era still hadn't become a
fanciful and enjoyable beverage yet not
even for the aristocracy they learned a
few tricks in the Han Dynasty they
learned that steaming the tea leaves and
then drying them before compressing the
leaves and two bricks help cut down the
bitterness this was a big advancement
the spoilage was astronomical prior to
steaming the leaves they used to dry
them by exposing them to charcoal fires
with these meager advances tea remained
bitter and was mostly consumed as part
of some brew containing other natural
ingredients in the Sun watcher
considered the definitive source
material for all things Three Kingdoms
period there was also a clear mention
about tea that assures us in our day
that the Chinese in the third century
knew of tea there's a story about the
drunken eastern Wu canis one ha grandson
of Swint Ren who had a loyal scholar
historian and courtier named way Yao
his bio states in the Sun quarter the
record of the three kingdoms that
because wei y'all had a weak
Constitution and in no way could hold
his own in King's room cause frequent
back canals he was allowed to drink tea
instead like I said all we have to go on
in these earliest days are snippets here
and there of these minor but definitive
references to tea at the conclusion of
the Three Kingdoms period semi again
unified China briefly starting in 265 a
half century later the gene were already
on the decline you probably recall from
previous episodes that when the Ching
dynasty fell and northern China was
taken over by Mongol and turkic tribes a
lot of the northern elites and
aristocrats of the day seeing dark times
ahead picked up and moved south this was
the first time in Chinese history a
human migration from north to south
happened in such a big way he was
already a familiar thing down in the
south where it grew naturally now these
northern aristocrats
to the south after the fault of the Jean
got to see up close what this was all
about this is how T grew even though T
or two that's what was still called had
been around for so long no one in China
had yet figured out how to unlock all
the magic contained inside the cells of
the tea leaves teas rise during the
periods of the Xiang Joel Han through to
the gene continued to grow in esteem
amongst the Chinese as a stimulant and
something natural that seemed her had
acquired a reputation for ameliorating
all kinds of ills and like I said during
the Eastern Jo when all the three
religions of China embraced tea that too
at a great impact on awareness about tea
tea came from the southwest of China
that much was clear good not as Sichuan
that was about as far away as you could
get from law young or chun-yan so those
places never really fell under the tight
control of the central government Qing
Chuang he was the first one to go down
there and crack a whip and get everybody
on board and it's not surprising that
the Qin conquests of the southwest
opened the door to the introduction of
tea and greater quantities as a tribute
commodity into the north of China the
oldest surviving Chinese encyclopedia
dates back to 350 right after the death
of Constantine the Great in the West
it's known as the Aria it explained in
all the detail and authority possible at
the time about words family relations
utensils heaven earth the hills and
mountains plants trees animals of all
kinds and animal husbandry in the area T
is mentioned about in writing the Aria
is a pretty sacred text because it's
attributed to the Duke of Joe and
Confucius in the third and fourth
century let me tell you the Aria was the
go-to source for most problems it
described T is Gia third tone a tree
radical on the left and a JA character
on the right as it is in the surname job
that was the word for tea
yeah it was described in the Aria this
way quote the plant is a small tree like
a gardenia the leaves grown in the
winter may be boiled to make a soup for
drinking
nowadays those that are gathered early
are called - those that are gathered
late are called mean another name for
them is Tuan the people of shul meaning
present day suit rod call them who - all
these ancient names for tea are said to
have begun with the Sichuan people if
you visit the wonderful national tea
museum in Hangzhou not far from the tea
gardens of Long Jing you'll see they say
it was the people of Sichuan who gave us
tea the Bosch who people get credit for
being the first ones to basically figure
out by the time of the Aria it was known
people in southwest China were
cultivating T su chuan is true war the
kingdom of Shu
this is the ancient state some say grew
out of the culture that evolved from the
area where the Bronze Age sunshield lay
ruins were discovered in the last
century ancient Bosch who went back all
the way to the Joe King Wu during and
after the Joe the bass state had been
ruled by Nobles and feet by King Wu
after the Sun went down in final defeat
once the Joe King Wu brother to the Duke
of Joe had everything in place down
there in the bass State the tribute
began to flow up to the Joe capital and
how Ching near present-day Xian before
the kingdom of Sheen led by Qin Shi
Huang United all of China they first had
to knock off all their opponents and 316
BCE 56 years before the birth of Ying
Chun the Qin sent their military machine
down to the southwest and they rolled
into the kingdom of Bashu and folded
that part of China with all its tea
trees and culture into this new nation
that they were trying to build and all
this time down in ancient Suitland
people have been developing their own
civilization side by side with these
people from around the Yellow River now
thanks to the [ __ ]
Qwest and later emperor sheer long all
that culture and all the good things
from su chuan including t began to more
naturally flow northward and this is how
T first became well-known in central and
North China what started off as a suit
wine and you tonight thing
thanks to thousands of years of
horticultural advancement was now and
over the next several centuries being
planted studied and wholly embraced by
those East China people who lived in the
mountainous areas of Jiujiang Jang su an
way and Jenny she and not just to the
east of China but also southward to
Guang XI and Guangdong although it was
Yunnan and Sichuan who gave China tea it
would be these tea gardens in East China
planted with seeds and cuttings from
Ground Zero and su chuan and u9 that
would later become world renowned and
their leaves would be sought after by
connoisseurs commanding prices in the
thousands of dollars per kilo yeah but
in the time of the Jo the Chien and into
the Han tea was still a bitter brew man
and though it gave the imbibe er a nice
little buzz and perhaps some solace and
enjoyment bitterness was still its
defining characteristic in this third
and fourth century world tea or to which
one or sure or me
it sure was bitter and mostly a health
product and a luxury only afforded by
the rich no one had figured out quite
yet how to process the leaves into an
enjoyable beverage the drink that Jo
Qing and Han era people were ingesting
came from leaves straight from the tree
and then later added into your cup of
boiled water Shan dome style following
the Aria of the job was the guan yin
that also came out in the third century
CE II during the Three Kingdoms period
this was another work filled with
commentaries and updates to previous
renditions of the area the Guan Yi was a
good example of a compendium that was
produced to bring previous scholarship
up to date here for the first time we
can read the following
quote in the district between the
province of Hebei and Sichuan the leaves
are plucked and made into cakes those
made of old leaves are mixed with rice
to make tea as a drink bake the cake
until reddish in color pound it into
tiny pieces put in a China ware pot pour
boiling water over them and add onion
ginger and orange the drink renders one
sober from intoxication and keeps one
awake unquote during the Qin tea started
to make its way northward and eastward
and with the victories of Han wolf Dee
and China's whole integration with
worlds beyond their borders via the Silk
Roads this facilitated the introduction
of tea to others whose world came into
contact with China that too caused the
repute of tea to travel even farther and
wider and as I said tea masters during
the Han had brought their craft to a
more refined state than their
predecessors but it wasn't yet a nice
tasty brew to look forward to in the
morning or afternoon the leo song
dynasty 422 479 is about as early as we
could reliably trace where the idea of
real tribute tea began this whole notion
of tribute tea is important what this
involved was sending the best tea in the
land to the Emperor as a gift for his
private use I even though he was the
Emperor he was still a man and a man
could only drink so much so he had way
more than he needed and one of the perks
of working for the Emperor was you also
had access to these teas that were given
as tribute and not only the court
officials got to drink it but his family
and sometimes his friends as well you
know Leo song they're not the northern
or southern song who came later
the Leo song was the first of the
southern dynasties during the southern
and northern dynasties period 422 589
that's CHP episode 23 during the leo
song it was written quote 20 li from the
city of Wu Chun and jo Jung there is the
one mountain which grows the tea
reserved for the Emperor as tribute tea
unquote
so 5th century CE II not only has the
cultivation of tea spread from guten out
and sich one to the east of China it's
also becoming something so prized and
valuable that it's worthy to be sent to
the Emperor as a gift the great teas of
China today the ones you see for sale
and dozens of websites or tea shops all
the most prized tea and all of China
pretty much all of them started their
brilliant career as an imperial tribute
chain and from this reputation a
particular village whose master work
created the tea would gain legendary
status and repute for being a tribute
tea supplier to the Emperor and their
tea would be even more prized and valued
throughout the land later on in this
long drawn-out series we'll look at most
of these great two legendary tribute
teas and I'll let you know how you two
could get your hands on a few hundred
grams if you had to do or die and draw a
line where tea for sure began to be
drunk as a beverage and not only as a
medicine the sway dynasty 581 - 605
would have to be it from the time of the
Three Kingdoms into the gin and later on
the disunity that followed in the nun
beach house the southern and northern
dynasties man I'm telling you a lot
could happen in 360 years during these
years between the time of jukka Liang
yung Chen and sway Wendy the knowledge
and wisdom of tea had advanced to a
point where the drinks started to become
a true art and amuse that will spawn a
million poems and paintings but keep in
mind even though tea as a beverage
turned a corner around the Sui dynasty
it was still a brick tea world and would
remain so for several more centuries yet
in this overview we looked at the
ancient history of tea oh man there's so
much more to go yet
next episode we'll focus on the Tong
dynasty 618 a 907 here is where tea
comes of age and the world within
China's influence gets hooked so that's
all for next time a couple quick
mentions I want to give an S Hou tea
out to my man Ella cash and the whole
superb writers colony at the ant hill
org you can skip right over my little
piece about the glory years of made in
China and go check out William poi Lee's
story about the language of TOI sign Tai
Shan down in Guangdong province a place
mentioned previously and CHP episodes
this piece in the anthill is an extract
from Williams book the eighth promised
an American sons tribute to his twice on
these mother great story about the TOI
Chinese language entitled talking toys
on ease the anthill ladies and gentlemen
allagash Tom Pellman Anthony Tao and
some of the best writers in the northern
hemisphere if you don't learn anything
from reading some of the work they put
out regularly for more than a year then
I declare you the smartest person in the
world while I'm at it let me give a
quick plug to a new book out entitled
Shanghai homes Pelops s of private life
from Harvard professor G le holy cow
palimpsests that's another $64 word that
means something that's altered but still
having traces of its original form this
book just came out in November 2014 from
Columbia University Press G le salvages
intimate recollections by successive
generations of inhabitants of two
vibrant culturally mixed Shanghai
alleyways destined for demolition from
the Republican Maoist and post mo eras
exploring three dimensions of private
life territories artifacts and gossip
the author recreates the sounds smells
look and feel a home over a tumultuous
century any fans out there of soo antes
Shanghai Street stories will dig this
new book by GL e this is Lazlo
Montgomery signing off from beautiful
and lovely drought-stricken Los Angeles
California 75 and sunny blue skies today
ho-hum what else is new winter's coming
and hopefully the reservoirs will fill
up but no one's counting on it
take care of you want and I hope you'll
come back next time for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast